CSM Docs (#1996)
unoplatform/uno.extensions: doc/Reference/Markup/Binding101.md

---
uid: Reference.Markup.Binding101
---
# Binding 101

Whether you've been around frameworks that use bindings for a while or you're brand new to the concept, this guide will help you understand the basics Bindings.

```cs
public partial class MainPage : Page
{
	public MainPage()
	{
		this.DataContext<MyViewModel>((page, vm) => page
			.Content(new TextBlock()
				.Text(vm.Message)
			));
	}
}
```

At first glance the code sample above may look correct and it will compile. However it is important to consider that within the `DataContext` method the vm property will **always** be null. This method is provided to help you provide strongly typed bindings for your ViewModel. To fix this we need to provide a binding expression to the `Text` method.

```cs
public partial class MainPage : Page
{
	public MainPage()
	{
		this.DataContext<MyViewModel>((page, vm) => page
			.Content(new TextBlock()
				.Text(() => vm.Message)
			);
	}
}
```

> Alternatively we may want to reduce the overhead on the binding by only having this fire once to set the Text Property and not be watched for changes for example if we're setting a title or something that doesn't change. In this case we can use the `Mode` method to set the binding mode to `OneTime`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, we may want to reduce the overhead on the binding by only having it apply once to set the `Text` property and not be watched for changes. For example, if we're setting a title or something that doesn't change,  we can use the `Mode` method to set the binding mode to `OneTime`.
```

```cs
public partial class MainPage : Page
{
	public MainPage()
	{
		this.DataContext<MyViewModel>((page, vm) => page
			.Content(new TextBlock()
				.Text(x => x.Bind(() => vm.Query)
					.Convert(query => $"Search: {query}"))
			));
	}
}
```

You can also use the shorthand version of this to simply provide the binding and a converter.

```cs
public partial class MainPage : Page
{
	public MainPage()
	{
		this.DataContext<MyViewModel>((page, vm) => page
			.Content(new TextBlock()
				.Text(() => vm.Query, query => $"Search: {query}")
			));
	}
}
```

Similarly you may need to convert the value back to the original type when the value is updated. In this case you can use the `ConvertBack` method to provide a converter to the binding.

```cs
public partial class MainPage : Page
{
	public MainPage()
	{
		this.DataContext<MyViewModel>((page, vm) => page
			.Content(new TextBox()
				.Text(x => x.Bind(() => vm.Enabled)
					.Convert(enabled => $"Enabled: {enabled}")
					.ConvertBack(text => bool.TryParse(text.Replace("Search: ", ""), out var enabled) ? enabled : false))
			));
	}
}
```

## Binding to other sources

> Sometimes you may want or need to bind to your ViewModel. The first case we'll take a look at is one in which we want to bind to a property of another element. In this case we will use the ElementName method on the BindingFactory to update our binding so that it will bind to a named element in the Visual Tree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes you may want or need to bind to your ViewModel. The first case we'll take a look at is one in which we want to bind to a property of another element. In this case we will use the `ElementName` method on the `BindingFactory` to update our binding so that it will bind to a named element in the Visual Tree.
```

```cs
public partial class MainPage : Page
{
	public MainPage()
	{
		this.DataContext<MyViewModel>((page, vm) => page
			.Content(
				new TextBox()
					.Assign(out var searchBox)
					.Text(() => vm.Query)
					.Name("SearchBox"),
				new TextBox()
					.Text(x => x
						.Bind(() => searchBox.Text)
						.ElementName("SearchBox"))
			));
	}
}
```

> Sometimes you may want to have a custom control that uses it's own ViewModel to help keep your ViewModel's clean and simple. In the event that you need to grab some context to create the ViewModel for the Child control's DataContext you may put these various concepts together to create a DataContext for the custom control using a binding on the parent's DataContext while updating the Binding to use the current Page as the source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes you may want to have a custom control that uses it's own ViewModel to help keep your ViewModel's clean and simple.

In the event that you need to grab some context to create the ViewModel for the Child control's `DataContext` you may put these various concepts together to create a `DataContext` for the custom control using a binding on the parent's `DataContext` while updating the Binding to use the current `Page` as the source.
```
